Test Name,Description: Test Description,Step: Steps to Reproduce Test Steps,Testdata: Prerequisite,Result: Expected Result,Component: Component Epic Link TC_VCS_001,Verify successful DB patching on VCS standalone environment,"1. Login to DIGS portal 2. Select VCS environment 3. Validate parameters 4. Execute patching pipeline 5. Monitor execution","VCS standalone DB configured Valid patch files available CTM services running","DB successfully patched CTM services restarted Health checks passed",VCS-Patching TC_VCS_002,Verify CTM services stop before patching,"1. Initiate patching pipeline 2. Monitor CTM service status 3. Verify services stopped 4. Check logs","CTM services active VCS environment ready","All CTM services stopped No active connections Stop confirmation logged",VCS-Patching TC_VCS_003,Verify OOP pre-checks execution on VCS,"1. Trigger patching pipeline 2. Monitor pre-check execution 3. Review pre-check results 4. Verify Oracle OOP Patching#OracleVCSOOPPatching","VCS DB available OOP configuration set","Pre-checks completed successfully No blocking issues found Ready for patching status",VCS-PreChecks TC_VCS_DG_001,Verify patching sequence for VCS with Data Guard,"1. Select VCS with DG environment 2. Execute patching pipeline 3. Monitor standby patching first 4. Monitor primary patching 5. Verify synchronization","VCS with Data Guard configured Primary and standby in sync","Standby patched first Primary patched after standby Data Guard in sync",VCS-DataGuard TC_VCS_DG_002,Verify standby pre-checks execute before primary,"1. Initiate DG patching 2. Monitor pre-check sequence 3. Verify standby checks first 4. Verify primary checks second","VCS DG environment Both nodes accessible","Standby pre-checks completed Primary pre-checks follow Correct execution order",VCS-DataGuard TC_VCS_DG_003,Verify no post-checks on standby servers,"1. Complete standby patching 2. Monitor post-check execution 3. Verify standby skipped 4. Verify primary post-checks run","Standby patched Primary not yet patched","No post-checks on standby Post-checks only on primary Expected behavior logged",VCS-DataGuard TC_VCS_RB_001,Verify successful rollback on VCS standalone,"1. Execute rollback pipeline 2. Select previous patch level 3. Monitor rollback process 4. Verify DB status","Patched VCS DB Previous patch level recorded Rollback pipeline available","DB rolled back to previous version CTM services reconnected Old patch level active",VCS-Rollback TC_VCS_RB_002,Verify rollback sequence for VCS with Data Guard,"1. Initiate DG rollback 2. Monitor rollback order 3. Verify standby rollback first 4. Verify primary rollback","Patched DG environment Rollback pipeline configured","Same order as patching maintained Standby rolled back first Data Guard synchronized",VCS-Rollback TC_VCS_RB_003,Verify CTM application reconnection after rollback,"1. Complete rollback 2. Check DB status 3. Verify CTM connection 4. Test application functionality","Rollback completed DB running","DB up and running CTM applications reconnected Services functional",VCS-Rollback TC_VCS_HK_001,Verify housekeeping execution before patching,"1. Enable housekeeping 2. Set execution to 'before' 3. Run patching pipeline 4. Monitor housekeeping tasks","Housekeeping enabled Old logs/files present","Housekeeping executed first Old files cleaned Patching proceeds after cleanup",VCS-Housekeeping TC_VCS_HK_002,Verify housekeeping execution after patching,"1. Enable housekeeping 2. Set execution to 'after' 3. Complete patching 4. Monitor housekeeping","Patching completed Temporary files exist","Patching completed first Housekeeping runs after Temp files cleaned",VCS-Housekeeping TC_VCS_HK_003,Verify optional housekeeping can be skipped,"1. Disable housekeeping 2. Run patching pipeline 3. Verify no housekeeping tasks","Housekeeping set to optional Pipeline configured","Patching executes without housekeeping No cleanup performed Pipeline completes successfully",VCS-Housekeeping TC_DIGS_001,Verify DIGS portal login and access,"1. Navigate to DIGS portal 2. Enter credentials 3. Login 4. Verify dashboard access","Valid user credentials Portal accessible User permissions set","Successful login Dashboard displayed VCS options visible",DIGS-Portal TC_DIGS_002,Verify pipeline selection in DIGS portal,"1. Login to portal 2. Navigate to pipelines 3. Select VCS pipeline 4. Verify options displayed","Portal access Pipelines configured","All 3 pipelines visible Patching Rollback Housekeeping available Correct configuration shown",DIGS-Portal TC_DIGS_003,Verify parameter validation through portal,"1. Select VCS pipeline 2. Enter dbInfra parameter 3. Submit validation 4. Review results","Valid dbInfra values Pipeline selected","Parameters validated Pipeline direction determined Ready for execution",DIGS-Portal TC_EDGE_001,Verify behavior when CTM services fail to stop,"1. Lock CTM service 2. Initiate patching 3. Monitor stop attempt 4. Check error handling","CTM service locked Cannot be stopped normally","Error detected Pipeline halted Alert generated Manual intervention required",VCS-EdgeCase TC_EDGE_002,Verify pre-check failure handling,"1. Create pre-check failure condition 2. Run patching pipeline 3. Monitor pre-check results 4. Verify pipeline stops","Invalid DB state Pre-checks will fail","Pre-check failure detected Pipeline execution stopped Detailed error logged No patching attempted",VCS-EdgeCase TC_EDGE_003,Verify Data Guard sync failure handling,"1. Break DG synchronization 2. Attempt patching 3. Monitor sync check 4. Verify error handling","DG out of sync Standby lagging","Sync issue detected Patching prevented Alert raised Manual sync required",VCS-EdgeCase TC_EDGE_004,Verify rollback when no previous patch exists,"1. Attempt rollback on fresh DB 2. Monitor rollback pipeline 3. Check error message","No previous patch level Fresh installation","No rollback point found Appropriate error message Pipeline exits gracefully",VCS-EdgeCase TC_EDGE_005,Verify concurrent pipeline execution prevention,"1. Start patching pipeline 2. Attempt second pipeline 3. Monitor response 4. Check locking mechanism","First pipeline running Same DB target","Second pipeline blocked Lock message displayed Queue or rejection handled Data integrity maintained",VCS-EdgeCase TC_EDGE_006,Verify health check failure after patching,"1. Complete patching 2. Force health check failure 3. Monitor alerts 4. Check rollback trigger","Patching completed Health check will fail","Health check failure detected Alert generated Rollback option presented Manual review required",VCS-EdgeCase TC_EDGE_007,Verify network interruption handling,"1. Start patching 2. Simulate network loss 3. Monitor pipeline status 4. Check recovery mechanism","Network interruption possible Pipeline midway","Network loss detected Pipeline paused/failed State preserved Resume/retry available",VCS-EdgeCase TC_EDGE_008,Verify insufficient space handling,"1. Reduce available disk space 2. Attempt patching 3. Monitor space check 4. Verify error handling","Limited disk space Below threshold","Space check fails Patching prevented Clear error message Space requirement shown",VCS-EdgeCase TC_EDGE_009,Verify patch file corruption detection,"1. Corrupt patch file 2. Initiate patching 3. Monitor checksum validation 4. Verify error handling","Corrupted patch file Checksum mismatch","Corruption detected Patching aborted Integrity check failed alert Download/verify patch required",VCS-EdgeCase TC_EDGE_010,Verify timeout handling for long-running operations,"1. Set short timeout value 2. Run patching pipeline 3. Monitor timeout trigger 4. Check cleanup actions","Timeout configured Long operation expected","Timeout triggered Operation terminated Cleanup performed State consistent",VCS-EdgeCase
